And now for the Ask a Manager portion
with senior manager Ryan Burgess, and
we're talking about skills today.
So Ryan, what skill do you lean
on most in your day-to-day?
>> I think I'll take your nice compliment
that you left me earlier is that I lead
with people skills.
I think that that is something that I find
that I lean on a lot is just observing,
asking the right questions,
really trying to truly understand some
of the deeper level things
that you may not think of.
Like even someone tells you something,
even if they're having a problem,
they're not gonna sometimes and
straight up to say that, right?
They're hinting at it but they may not
wanna throw someone under the bus and so
you're able to read into some
of those situations a bit and
ask follow up questions.
I'm sure there's many things I missed, but
I do feel like just paying attention to
those subtle nuance in the way someone
says something is kind of poking at that
and asking questions can go a long way.
>> Observation and asking questions.
>> Yes.
>> I love that, yeah,
I don't think we covered that,
but that's an important skill.
What's your favorite way
of learning as a manager?
>> It's a tough one, I don't know
that I've quite found, actually,
I'll say the cheap answer
is it's learning by doing.
It's constantly learning from
my own mistakes and going,
wow, that did not work or that didn't
land, and how would I do it differently?
So it's a learning and reflecting on what
you've done, but I also like to read
books, like I do find that there's always
something that you can learn from it,
not everything like you said Jem the first
90 days which I think I'm the one who told
you to read that
>> You did [LAUGH].
>> It's like there's some really
good insights in there, yes,
there's some of the things you're
like I would never do that or
I wouldn't take that approach,
I think it's good.
Another thing is learning
through good leaders, but
also learning through bad leaders,
I got to call that one out.
I've had some really good
managers over the years,
I've had some really bad managers,
and it's funny that you learn a lot,
is like I wouldn't do that,
or this didn't work.
And so I think observing
there is a big thing too,
is just paying attention to
what others are doing and
just talking with other leaders in
your company can be beneficial or
going on those slack groups and
conferences and things and just similar as
engineering is like learning about
different techniques and talking about it.
>> I agree with that, I would add my
favorite way of learning is doing it,
but being a parent has taught
me a lot about being a leader of
people that I can't control directly.
And more about controlling myself and
how I show up, which is,.
>> One of my favorite management
books is actually a parenting book,
so I do see the connection there.
>> Is it a how to talk to your kids or
listen to it so it gives,
>> It's actually a great book that people
should absolutely read, it is so helpful.
You don't have to be a manager or
a parent, it's really just how to
communicate with people, I think is
really an effective book to read.
>> A lot of overlap there.
>> Could you repeat the name of that book?
>> What was it again?
>> I always screw it up, but
it's like how to listen to your kids or
how to talk to your kids so
your kids will listen.
I always mess up the title, I do actually
in my slides have it as a reference and
so I highly recommend checking it out,
it is a good book.
>> And Ryan, what skills do you
see missing in most new managers?
>> Funny enough,
it's the people skills, I feel like,
well, I mean, we were engineers first,
right, that's where it often starts.
And however you got to management,
that's usually the first
leading part because you still
want those technical skills.
And you might've been at the top
of your game as an engineer, and
there are different skill sets, and so
the people skills often is neglected,
and so that's a big one.
Communication you talked about Jem,
I think that's one that is tough,
it's one that as a leader, you're
constantly wanting to get better at.
I always strive for better communication,
whether it be my verbal or
written communication.
People interpret it like you said,
the slack emoji can mean so many things,
I don't even think of that sometimes,
and it can be read differently and so
communication is so important.
And then another one that I would say is
a bit of a failure of as a new manager is
micromanaging.
You feel like you have
to own someone's work or
really help get your hands in there.
It's really hard because you wanna make
sure that you're doing something as
a manager, but that's oftentimes the
mistake that people make is micromanaging.
>> Yeah, well, thanks Ryan,
thanks for sharing your experience.
>> Thanks, Jem.